Fix outdated README file and add development notes (#553)
eclipse/che-operator: README.md

## Che/CodeReady Workspaces Operator

> Che/CodeReady workspaces operator uses [Operator SDK](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk) and [Go Kube client](https://github.com/kubernetes/client-go) to deploy, update and manage K8S/OpenShift resources that constitute a single or multi user Eclipse Che/CodeReady Workspaces cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Che/CodeReady workspaces operator uses [Operator SDK](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk) and [Go Kube client](https://github.com/kubernetes/client-go) to deploy, update and manage K8S/OpenShift resources that constitute a single or multi-user Eclipse Che/CodeReady Workspaces cluster.
```

    * turn on/off OpenShift oAuth (login with OpenShift in Che) (create identity provider, oAuth client, update Che ConfigMap)
* updates Che deployment with a new image:tag when a new operator version brings in a new Che tag

### Build custom che-operator image

> You can build a custom che-operator image using command in the root of the che-operator project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can build a custom che-operator image using the following command in the root of the che-operator project:
```

```bash
$ docker build -t ${IMAGE_REGISTRY_HOST}/${IMAGE_REGISTRY_USER_NAME}/che-operator:nightly .
```

> > Notice: you can use VSCode task `Build and push custom che-operator image`. But you need to specify env variables: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Notice: you can use VSCode task `Build and push custom che-operator image`, but you need to specify env variables: 
```

> IMAGE_REGISTRY_HOST, IMAGE_REGISTRY_USER_NAME(for regular development you can use `.bashrc` file for this purpose).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMAGE_REGISTRY_HOST, IMAGE_REGISTRY_USER_NAME (use `.bashrc` for regular development).
```

This task will build and push image with name `${IMAGE_REGISTRY_HOST}/${IMAGE_REGISTRY_USER_NAME}/che-operator:nightly`
to the registry.

### Using chectl to deploy che-operator

To test che-operator changes you can use chectl: https://github.com/che-incubator/chectl.
chectl has got two installer types corresponding to che-operator: `operator` and `olm`.

> With `operator` installer chectl reuses copies of che-operator deployment and role(cluster role) yamls, CR, CRD from folder `deploy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the `operator` installer chectl reuses copies of che-operator deployment and role (cluster role) YAMLs, CR, CRD from the `deploy` directory.
```

With `olm` installer chectl uses catalog source index image with olm bundles based on `deploy/olm-catalog`.
chectl supports cluster platforms: "minikube", "minishift", "k8s", "openshift", "microk8s", "docker-desktop", "crc".

### Deploy che-operator with chectl via `operator` installer

> If you want to test modified che-operator using chectl, you have to build a custom che-operator image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to test a modified che-operator using chectl, you have to build a custom che-operator image.
```

> See more: [Build custom che-operator image](#build-custom-che-operator-image)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more, see [Build custom che-operator image](#build-custom-che-operator-image)
```

Launch test cluster. Install Eclipse Che:

```bash
$ chectl deploy:server -n che --installer operator -p ${platform} --che-operator-image=${IMAGE_REGISTRY_HOST}/${IMAGE_REGISTRY_USER_NAME}/che-operator:nightly
```

> where `platform` it's a cluster platform supported by chectl.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`platform` is a cluster platform supported by chectl.
```

> > INFO: if you changed che-operator deployment or role/cluster role, CRD, CR you have to provide `--templates` argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> INFO: if you changed che-operator deployment or role/cluster role, CRD, CR, you must provide `--templates` argument.
```

> This argument will point chectl to your modificated che-operator `deploy` folder path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This argument will point chectl to your modified che-operator `deploy` folder path.
```

    registryPoll:
      interval: 5m
```
Replace value of `image` field with your catalog source image. Don't forget to specify the desired platform.

5. Deploy Che using chectl:
```sh
$ chectl server:deploy --installer=olm --platform=${platform} -n ${che-namespace} --catalog-source-yaml ${path_to_custom_catalog_source_yaml} --olm-channel=nightly --package-manifest-name=eclipse-che-preview-${platform}
```

## Deploy che-operator using scripts

**IMPORTANT! Cluster Admin privileges are required**

```bash
./deploy.sh $namespace
```

> The script will create sa, role, role binding, operator deployment, CRD and CR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script will create sa, role, role binding, operator deployment, CRD, and CR.
```

Wait until Che deployment is scaled to 1 and Che route is created.

When on pure k8s, make sure you provide a global ingress domain in `deploy/crds/org_v1_che_cr.yaml` for example:

```bash
  k8s:
    ingressDomain: '192.168.99.101.nip.io'
```

> ### Edit checluster CR using command line interface(terminal)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Edit checluster CR using a command-line interface (terminal)
```

> Any Kubernetes object you can modify using the UI(for example Openshift console).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can modify any Kubernetes object using the UI (for example OpenShift web console).
```

> But also you can do the same using terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also modify Kubernetes objects using the terminal.
```

> You can edit checluster CR object using command line editor: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can edit checluster CR object using the command-line editor: 
```

> You can edit checluster CR object using the command-line editor: 

Reviewer 2: What is the difference between these two?

```bash
$ oc edit checluster ${che-cluster-name} -n ${namespace}
```

Where ${che-cluster-name} is a custom resource name, by default 'eclipse-che'.

> Also you can modify the CheCluster using the `kubectl patch`. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also modify the CheCluster using the `kubectl patch`. For example:
```

```bash
$ kubectl patch checluster/eclipse-che -n ${eclipse-che-namespace} --type=merge -p '{"spec":{"auth":{"openShiftoAuth": false}}}'
```

### Update checluster using chectl

> You can update Che configuration using: command `chectl server:update` and flag `--cr-patch`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can update Che configuration using the `chectl server:update` command and the `--cr-patch` flag.
```

> ## OpenShift oAuth

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## OpenShift OAuth
```

> OpenShift clusters includes a built-in OAuth server. che-operator supports this authentication way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenShift clusters include a built-in OAuth server. che-operator supports this authentication method.
```

> There is CR property 'openShiftoAuth' to enable/disable this feature. It's enabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use  'openShiftoAuth' CR property to enable/disable OAuth authentication. It's enabled by default.
```

> > INFO: If you are [using scripts to deploy che-operator](#deploy_che_operator_using_scripts), then  bear in mind that che-operator service account needs to have cluster admin privileges so that the operator can create oauthclient at a cluster scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> INFO: If you are [using scripts to deploy che-operator](#deploy_che_operator_using_scripts), note that the che-operator service account needs to have cluster-admin privileges so that the operator can create OAuth client at a cluster scope.
```

There is `oc adm` command in both deploy scripts. Uncomment it if you need this feature.
Make sure your current user has cluster-admin privileges.

> To disable this feature:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable OAuth:
```

- using command line:

```bash
$ kubectl patch checluster/eclipse-che -n ${eclipse-che-namespace} --type=merge -p '{"spec":{"auth":{"openShiftoAuth": false}}}'
```

> - Also you can create `cr-patch.yaml` and use it with chectl:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can also create `cr-patch.yaml` and use it with chectl:
```

To start work each user should login/register using form, after that user will be redirected to the user dashboard.

### Deploy single user Che

To enable single user Che you can:

- use command line:

```bash
$ kubectl patch checluster/eclipse-che -n ${eclipse-che-namespace} --type=merge -p '{"spec":{"server": {"customCheProperties": {"CHE_MULTIUSER": "false"}}}}'
```

- Also you can create `cr-patch.yaml` and use it with chectl:

```yaml
spec:
  server:
    customCheProperties:
      CHE_MULTIUSER: "false"
```

And update che-cluster using chectl:

```
$ chectl server:update -n ${eclipse-che-namespace} --che-operator-cr-patch-yaml=/path/to/cr-patch.yaml
```

### Deploy Che with single host strategy

todo

#### OpenShift

When the cluster is configured to use self-signed certificates for the router, the certificate will be automatically propagated to Che components as trusted.
If cluster router uses certificate signed by self-signed one, then parent/root CA certificate should be added into corresponding config map of additional trusted certificates (see `serverTrustStoreConfigMapName` option).

#### K8S

By default self-signed certificates for Che will be generated automatically.

> If it is needed to use your own certificates, create `che-tls` secret (see `k8s.tlsSecretName` option) with `key.crt` and `tls.crt` fields. In case of self-signed certificate `self-signed-certificate` secret should be created with the public part of CA certificate under `ca.crt` key in secret data.

Reviewer 2: Here we can add a note, that is is possible to use default certificate of Kubernetes cluster by passing empty string as a value of `tlsSecretName`:
```yaml
spec:
  k8s:
    tlsSecretName: ''
```

Subsequent checks verify that the installation is reconfigured, for example uses secure routes or ConfigMap has the right Login-with-OpenShift values

### Check che-operator compilation

> To check Che operator compilation you can use command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check Che operator compilation, use the following command:
```

```bash
GOOS=linux GOARCH=${ARCH} CGO_ENABLED=0 go build -mod=vendor -o /tmp/che-operator/che-operator cmd/manager/main.go
```

> From command you can see the operator will be compiled to binary  `/tmp/che-operator/che-operator`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The operator will be compiled to the binary `/tmp/che-operator/che-operator`. 
```

This command is useful to make sure that che-operator is still compiling after your changes.

> Also you can use the corresponding VSCode task:`Compile che-operator code`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use the corresponding VSCode task:`Compile che-operator code`. 
```

### Format code

> To format che-operator execute command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To format che-operator execute the following command:
```

```bash
$ go fmt ./...
```

Also you can use the VSCode task: `Format che-operator code`.

### Update golang dependencies

> che-operator uses go modules and a vendor folder. To update golang dependencies execute command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
che-operator uses Go modules and a vendor folder. To update golang dependencies execute the following command:
```

```bash
$ go mod vendor
```

Also you can use VSCode task `Update che-operator dependencies`.

> New golang dependencies in the vendor folder should be committed and included to the pull request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New golang dependencies in the vendor folder should be committed and included in the pull request.
```

## How to add new role/cluster role to che-operator

che-operator uses Kubernetes api to manage Eclipse Che lifecycle.
To request any resource objects from Kubernetes api, che-operator should pass authorization.

> Kubernetes authorization api uses role-based access control(RBAC) api(see more https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/). che-operator has got a service account, like a process inside a pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes authorization API uses role-based access control (RBAC) API(to learn more, see https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/). che-operator has a service account, like a process inside a pod.
```

> Service account provides identity for che-operator. The service account can be bound to some roles(or cluster roles).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service account provides an identity for che-operator. The service account can be bound to some roles (or cluster roles).
```

> These roles allow che-operator to request some Kubernetes api resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These roles allow the che-operator to request Kubernetes API resources.
```

> Role(or cluster role) bindings we are using to bind roles(or cluster roles) to the che-operator service account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Role (or cluster role) bindings are used to bind roles (or cluster roles) to the che-operator service account.
```

che-operator roles and cluster roles yaml definition located in the `deploy` folder.

> For example `role.yaml`. When you need to provide access to new Kubernetes api part for che-operator, you need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example `role.yaml`. When you need to provide access to the new Kubernetes API part for che-operator, you need
```

> include to this file such information like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to add the following information to this file: 
```

  - api group
  - resource/s name
  - verbs - actions which che-operator can do on this resource/s

> When this role/cluster role was updated you should also register `api` cshema in the `pkg/controller/che/che_controller.go` in the `add` method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this role/cluster role was updated you should register `api` schema in the `pkg/controller/che/che_controller.go` in the `add` method:
```

```go
import (
  ...
	userv1 "github.com/openshift/api/user/v1"
  ...
)

...
		if err := userv1.AddToScheme(mgr.GetScheme()); err != nil {
			logrus.Errorf("Failed to add OpenShift User to scheme: %s", err)
    }
...
```

> Then you can use the new Kubernetes api part in the che-operator controller code. When code completed and your pr is ready you should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you can use the new Kubernetes API part in the che-operator controller code. When code completed and your pr is ready you should
```

> generate new OLM bundle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generate a new OLM bundle.
```
